Add default santizer config (#43271)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/html_sanitizer_api/default_sanitizer_configuration/index.md

---
title: Default Sanitizer configuration
slug: Web/API/HTML_Sanitizer_API/Default_sanitizer_configuration
page-type: guide
---

{{DefaultAPISidebar("HTML Sanitizer API")}}

The default Sanitizer configuration defines the {{domxref("Sanitizer")}} that is used by default if you call the [safe sanitization methods](/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTML_Sanitizer_API#sanitization_methods), such as {{domxref("Element.setHTML()")}}, {{domxref("ShadowRoot.setHTML()")}}, and {{domxref("Document.parseHTML_static","Document.parseHTML()")}}, without specifying a custom sanitizer.
It is also the default configuration returned by the [`Sanitizer()` constructor](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Sanitizer/Sanitizer) if no configuration is set.

> The set of elements and attributes [allowed](/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTML_Sanitizer_API#allow_configurations) by the default configuration omits those that are known to be XSS-unsafe, along with other elements and attributes that might be used for clickjacking or spoofing, or are otherwise potentially unsafe if provided by a user.

Author: So would I. We can say for sure what removals protect against XSS, but the spec doesn't cover the others, and I am not going to gguess.

The HTML, SVG, and MathML elements and attributes allowed by the configuration are specified in the following sections.
Comments and `data-*` attributes are removed by default.
Note that this is derived from the specification, where it is referred to as the [built-in safe default configuration](https://wicg.github.io/sanitizer-api/#built-in-safe-default-configuration).

> [!NOTE]
> The specification also defines the [built-in safe baseline configuration](https://wicg.github.io/sanitizer-api/#built-in-safe-baseline-configuration), which lists the elements that must minimally be removed to block script-content: {{htmlelement("embed")}}, {{htmlelement("frame")}}, {{htmlelement("iframe")}}, {{htmlelement("object")}}, {{htmlelement("script")}}, and {{SVGElement("use")}} .
> "Safe" sanitization methods will remove these elements from a custom sanitizer automatically, along with any event handler content attributes (such as `onafterprint`, `onbeforeinput`, and so on).

## Allowed elements

The "Additional allowed attributes" columns list attributes permitted only on that specific element (the [global attributes](#global_attributes) listed below are allowed on any element).

> ### HTML elements

Author: I do disagree (a bit), but Claude makes testing plausible https://pr43271.review.mdn.allizom.net/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTML_Sanitizer_API/Default_sanitizer_configuration

(Change https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/43271/changes/524441db22622466b1d023df80c73bbf86a15f19)

Can you have a look at the new version and tell me if you think that this is better? Some notes:
- Up the top I explicitly list the XSS removals in the list of things that are removed. 
- The Element sections are now level 2 and appear in the sidebar. This is an improvement. 
- The elements tables list "all elements" as grepped by claude from MDN element overview pages. My experience is that Claude is pretty good at these changes. Some confidence by the fact that the links all work.
- The elements tables have a column for the "allowed" elements with a checkbox. 
- The tables don't have an attacks column. The spec does not give specific reasons for anything that has been removed other than XSS.
- I have removed info about the safe baseline config and what is removed by `Sanitizer.removeUnsafe()` into that method in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/43271/changes/12a228427384723fc24751672bfce4f38d46cc13

> ### HTML elements

Reviewer: Up to you whether to use this version. I think it is better but I've said my piece. I'd also have ❌ or something for the ones that it blocks, for readability.

I didn't mean an attacks column.

As I understand it:

1. the [_build-in safe default baseline configuration_](https://wicg.github.io/sanitizer-api/#built-in-safe-baseline-configuration) blocks "XSS unsafe" elements like `<iframe>`, and event handler content attributes. 
2. the [_built-in safe default configuration_](https://wicg.github.io/sanitizer-api/#built-in-safe-default-configuration) blocks everything in (1), plus extra stuff that may allow other attacks.

| What you do | What you get |
| -----------|------- |
| create a sanitizer with no config    | 2    |
| call `setHTML()` (or any other "safe" method) with no specified sanitizer    | 2    |
| call `setHTML()` (or any other "safe" method) with a custom sanitizer    | 1    |
| `setHTMLUnsafe()` (or any other "unsafe" method) with no specified sanitizer    | nothing    |
| `setHTMLUnsafe()` (or any other "unsafe" method) with a custom sanitizer    | nothing (beyond your custom behavior) (?)    |

Is that right? I don't know if there's a place in these docs that summarises this situation. It helps IMO to be able to name things, so you can refer to specific configs and be precise, so a reader knows exactly how a phrase like "XSS-unsafe items" pays out in terms of what's actually allowed. That means having a sharp definition of (1) and (2) that you can link to whenever it's relevant.

But also, it would be nice to see clearly what the delta is between (1) and (2) - because one thing that this means for a developer is, if I use an safe method with a custom config, I have to worry about what's in that delta. So I thought that including an extra column showing this would be helpful.

---
title: Default Sanitizer configuration
slug: Web/API/HTML_Sanitizer_API/Default_sanitizer_configuration
page-type: guide
---

{{DefaultAPISidebar("HTML Sanitizer API")}}

The default Sanitizer configuration defines the {{domxref("Sanitizer")}} that is used by default if you call the [safe sanitization methods](/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTML_Sanitizer_API#sanitization_methods), such as {{domxref("Element.setHTML()")}}, {{domxref("ShadowRoot.setHTML()")}}, and {{domxref("Document.parseHTML_static","Document.parseHTML()")}}, without specifying a custom sanitizer.
It is also the default configuration returned by the [`Sanitizer()` constructor](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Sanitizer/Sanitizer) if no configuration is set.

> The set of elements and attributes [allowed](/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTML_Sanitizer_API#allow_configurations) by the default configuration omits those that are known to be XSS-unsafe, along with other elements and attributes that are considered problematic for other reasons.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The set of elements and attributes [allowed](/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTML_Sanitizer_API#allow_configurations) by the default configuration omits those that are known to be XSS-unsafe, along with other elements and attributes that are considered unsafe for user inputs (e.g., {{htmlelement("iframe")}}).
```

- `displaystyle`
- [`mathbackground`](/en-US/docs/Web/MathML/Reference/Global_attributes/mathbackground)
- [`mathcolor`](/en-US/docs/Web/MathML/Reference/Global_attributes/mathcolor)
- [`mathsize`](/en-US/docs/Web/MathML/Reference/Global_attributes/mathsize)
- [`scriptlevel`](/en-US/docs/Web/MathML/Reference/Global_attributes/scriptlevel)

### SVG presentation attributes

- {{SVGAttr("alignment-baseline")}}
- {{SVGAttr("baseline-shift")}}
- {{SVGAttr("clip-rule")}}
- {{SVGAttr("color-interpolation")}}
- {{SVGAttr("dominant-baseline")}}
- {{SVGAttr("fill")}}
- {{SVGAttr("fill-opacity")}}
- {{SVGAttr("fill-rule")}}
- {{SVGAttr("marker-end")}}
- {{SVGAttr("marker-mid")}}
- {{SVGAttr("marker-start")}}
- {{SVGAttr("paint-order")}}
- {{SVGAttr("shape-rendering")}}
- {{SVGAttr("stop-color")}}
- {{SVGAttr("stop-opacity")}}
- {{SVGAttr("stroke")}}
- {{SVGAttr("stroke-dasharray")}}
- {{SVGAttr("stroke-dashoffset")}}
- {{SVGAttr("stroke-linecap")}}
- {{SVGAttr("stroke-linejoin")}}
- {{SVGAttr("stroke-miterlimit")}}
- {{SVGAttr("stroke-opacity")}}
- {{SVGAttr("stroke-width")}}
- {{SVGAttr("text-anchor")}}
- {{SVGAttr("text-rendering")}}
- {{SVGAttr("vector-effect")}}

> ### CSS properties

Reviewer 3: This is not correct. These are SVG attributes that map to CSS properties. e.g. https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Reference/Attribute/clip-path

Author: Thanks. Fixed by merging into above list. https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/43271/changes/93e21aa79a84c40d66972db438358ae0c883af32

---
title: Default `Sanitizer` configuration
slug: Web/API/HTML_Sanitizer_API/Default_sanitizer_configuration
page-type: guide
---

{{DefaultAPISidebar("HTML Sanitizer API")}}

> The default `Sanitizer` configuration defines the {{domxref("Sanitizer")}} that is used by default if you call the [safe sanitization methods](/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTML_Sanitizer_API#sanitization_methods), such as {{domxref("Element.setHTML()")}}, {{domxref("ShadowRoot.setHTML()")}}, and {{domxref("Document.parseHTML_static","Document.parseHTML()")}}, without specifying a custom sanitizer.

Author: Accepting, but not sure I will do everywhere.

> The default `Sanitizer` configuration defines the {{domxref("Sanitizer")}} that is used by default if you call the [safe sanitization methods](/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTML_Sanitizer_API#sanitization_methods), such as {{domxref("Element.setHTML()")}}, {{domxref("ShadowRoot.setHTML()")}}, and {{domxref("Document.parseHTML_static","Document.parseHTML()")}}, without specifying a custom sanitizer.

Author: OK, everywhere it is a "default sanitizer configuration". Originally I wanted to define what the actual object was - i.e. this is not a `SanitizerConfig`. However when refering to the default in a safe method, it isn't a `Sanitizer` - under the hood it could be anything, even if it has the same result as that object.
